Victoria wakes from a dream about walking toward a tumultuous ocean, unsettled as Timothy takes a call about an urgent matter. At breakfast, she shares her dream, and Piper interprets it as a warning. Rick approaches Sritala, posing as a film producer offering her a role, which Chelsea finds suspicious. Lochlan attends a posture correction session, where the therapist asks if he struggles with assertiveness due to his dominant family members. Gaitok endures humiliation from Jim's guards, who imply he is incompetent and claim that resort manager Fabian wants him fired, though Sritala has been protecting him. Intoxicated, Rick impulsively frees snakes from a terrarium at a nearby snake show; Chelsea is bitten and rushed to the hospital while he follows. Piper visits a Buddhist monastery about which she claims to be writing a thesis. Victoria, noticing Timothy's stress, gives him lorazepam, causing him to nap throughout the day. Timothy later steals more lorazepam to sleep at night. Belinda recognizes Greg and approaches him at dinner, mentioning his relationship with Tanya; he denies knowledge of her. After implying that her husband voted for Donald Trump, Kate later watches Jaclyn and Laurie laughing and gossiping about her marriage and political views.
Due to increasing crime at the resort, Fabian ramps up security by giving Gaitok a gun. The Ratliffs and Rick and Chelsea are among the guests at a social gathering on Greg's yacht. Chelsea confronts Rick about his upcoming trip to Bangkok and his emotional disconnection from her; he tells her that Sritala's husband allegedly murdered his father when he was a child and he plans to confront him. Piper tells Lochlan she lied about her thesis, and is planning to tell their parents that she wants to stay at the monastery for a year after graduation. Kate, Laurie and Jaclyn go to a nearby resort on Valentin's suggestion but find it filled with retirees and leave. They order Valentin to take them out. Their day in town is interrupted by a Songkran water festival, but they later meet up with Valentin and his friends at a club. Timothy calls his lawyer, who tells him that Kenny has cooperated with the investigation, and that Timothy will likely face a prison sentence. He steals the gun from Gaitok's unattended security booth. Belinda discovers that Greg fled from questioning after Tanya's death in Italy. Meanwhile Greg investigates Belinda's Instagram account.