Seven months after the murder, forensic psychologist Briony Ariston meets with Jamie at a youth detention facility to prepare a pre-trial report on his mental capacity. Jamie had been recently involved in a violent altercation with another inmate and is visibly aggravated that Ryan is spending his pre-trial period at home. Briony makes it clear to Jamie that her only goal is to evaluate his understanding of the circumstances surrounding the case, not the case itself. Jamie, however, engages in a tenuously gripped game of one-upmanship. The psychologist patiently redirects the conversation to discuss Jamie's sex life, his attitude towards women, and towards himself. Through Briony's careful redirections, Jamie provides a full chronology of events: Katie had taken a topless photo for a classmate she fancied, and that boy spread it around the school without her consent. This hurt Katie, and Jamie asked Katie out, figuring she would be emotionally vulnerable and thus more likely to accept. She promptly rebuffed him and subsequently began to leave the comments on his Instagram page. Throughout the whole interview, Jamie's mood wildly fluctuates between friendly and aggressive. This includes an accidental confession to the murder and several furious outbursts that leave Briony severely shaken. After informing Jamie that this session is their last, Jamie demands to know if Briony likes him personally, desperate for her approval. She refuses to answer, which further agitates Jamie. The security guard is forced to drag Jamie out of the interview room. Briony takes a moment to cry to herself silently before leaving.
Thirteen months after the murder, the Millers have made attempts to return to normality as Jamie awaits trial. On Eddie's 50th birthday, his van is spray-painted by teenagers. Eddie plans to take Manda and Lisa to the cinema later that day to lighten the mood, but they first go to the hardware store to remove the paint from the van. There, Eddie is further distressed by an employee recognising him and awkwardly expressing support for Jamie. Eddie buys some paint to recoat the van. Outside he spots the teens who tagged the van and angrily threatens them, before throwing the can of paint on his van out of anger. On the drive home, Jamie calls and announces his plan to plead guilty. At the house, Eddie and Manda come to terms with Jamie's predicament, blaming themselves for not paying attention to his online radicalisation. Eddie breaks down on Jamie's bed.