Detective Inspector Luke Bascombe and Detective Sergeant Misha Frank lead a police raid at the home of the Miller family: father Eddie, mother Manda, daughter Lisa and 13-year-old son Jamie. They arrest Jamie on suspicion of murder and take him to the nearby police station. A tearful Jamie professes his innocence as he is processed and taken to a detention cell while his family arrive at the station. Eddie agrees to be Jamie's "appropriate adult" and be with him as he is searched and questioned. Eddie asks Jamie in private whether he has committed the crime and believes his denial. Barlow, the solicitor appointed to represent Jamie, arrives and briefs Jamie and his family on criminal procedure and advises Jamie not to respond to questions about the previous night. Eddie oversees Jamie getting strip searched. Bascombe and Frank begin Jamie's formal interview. The detectives reveal Jamie has made several sexually explicit comments about female models on Instagram. He is then questioned about Katie Leonard, one of Jamie's classmates whose murdered body had been found in a car park the night before. As the evidence mounts, Barlow suggests a break, but Eddie insists his son has nothing to hide. Bascombe plays CCTV footage of Jamie stabbing Katie to death before terminating the interview. Jamie and Eddie weep in the interrogation room; Eddie briefly recoils when Jamie touches him before they tightly embrace.
Three days after the murder, Bascombe and Frank visit Jamie's secondary school to speak to Jamie and Katie's classmates, hoping to learn Jamie's motive and the location of the murder weapon. Bascombe's son Adam is also a student at the school. The officers find the teachers overwhelmed and struggling to handle unruly students. Across the school, news of the murder and Jamie's involvement are widespread among the students; Katie's friend Jade is especially upset by the murder and refuses to answer any of the officer's questions. She later assaults Jamie's friend Ryan, accusing him of getting Katie killed. When Bascombe and Frank check on Ryan at the infirmary, he is initially cooperative, but soon turns evasive and unwilling to answer questions, leaving the room when the murder weapon is mentioned. Adam approaches his father and explains how certain emojis are used by teenagers to communicate on social media. Adam reveals that Katie used this form of encoded language to accuse Jamie of being an incel on Instagram, in effect leading a cyberbullying campaign against him, which troubles Bascombe and Frank. As they attempt to question Ryan again, he suddenly flees through the window and Bascombe chases him out of the school. When Ryan is caught, he reveals the knife Jamie used to stab Katie was his. Ryan is arrested for conspiracy as the school day ends, with Frank leaving to file charges against Jamie. Bascombe picks up Adam from school so they can spend more time together. Eddie visits the site of Katie's murder to leave flowers in remembrance.