Zion, the son of White Lotus Maui spa manager Belinda, is joining his mother at the White Lotus in Ko Samui, Thailand, where she is visiting to learn from wellness manager Pornchai. He begins a session with the hotel's meditation counselor, Amrita, before being interrupted by repeated gunfire nearby. While scrambling through a pond to look for his mother, Zion discovers a dead body. One week earlier, a group of new guests arrive at the White Lotus. Middle-aged Rick Hatchett arrives with his much younger British girlfriend Chelsea. Rick is upset to learn that Jim Hollinger, the husband of hotel owner Sritala, is not present. Wealthy businessman Timothy Ratliff arrives with his wife Victoria and their grown children Saxon, Piper, and Lochlan. Timothy receives several calls from a journalist working on a story about possible illegal activity by his former business partner, Kenny Nguyen. Jaclyn, a popular TV actress, arrives with her childhood friends Kate and Laurie. Security guard Gaitok flirts with health mentor Mook after giving her a ride to work. Left by Rick to drink at the bar alone, Chelsea befriends ex-model Chloe, whose boyfriend is revealed to be Greg, Tanya McQuoid's widower.
Kate and Jaclyn discuss Laurie's messy divorce and her troubled daughter while Laurie is out of the room. Later, when Jaclyn is absent, Kate gossips with Laurie about Jaclyn's suspected narcissism and her much younger husband. At breakfast, Kate approaches Victoria, remembering meeting her at a baby shower a decade earlier, but Victoria awkwardly rebuffs her. At Chelsea's insistence, Rick attends a session with Amrita, and opens up slightly about his traumatic childhood. Gaitok reveals his true feelings to Mook, but she gently dismisses his advances. Later, while health mentor Valentin chats with Gaitok at the security gate, a robbery occurs at the hotel boutique where Chelsea and Chloe are shopping. Belinda and Pornchai exchange massages. Piper is upset by her brothers' comments about her sex life. Chelsea and Rick dine with Chloe and Greg, who is using the name "Gary" and is evasive about his life. Timothy continues receiving calls from journalists about his involvement in a money laundering scheme and finally connects with Kenny, who believes he is certain to be arrested and threatens suicide. After overhearing Sritala's plans to visit her husband in a Bangkok hospital, Rick tells Chelsea he must leave briefly to go to Bangkok.